First of all, Mr. Kerbo, would you tell us
something about your early life? Include the
names of your parents, places and dates of their
birth and death, the place where you were born and
the date of your birth, and the schools you
attended before you came to Texas A&M. My father
was born in Georgia in 1856, and It was in a rural
community.
I don't know of any large town there, but it was in
the area to the northeast of Atlanta somewhere
because I recall hearing
him talk, speak of
Being on the edge of Sherman's march to the sea, he
saw and heard some of the soldiers
coming and going during that time. And
his name was H.C.
Harrison C. Kerbo.
Several of the, he, his father and
several families of the Curbos came to northeast
Texas along about 1867
and settled in Red River County. Later on, they
moved to, some of them moved over into Delta
County, close to Cooper, Texas.
That is where I was born in 1895. My mother also was
born before the Civil War. She was born in 1860 in
Octobahaw County, Mississippi.
And her family also came to Texas long about that
time and settled in the area somewhere around
where Sherman now is, whatever county that might
be. And later they also moved to Delta County. In
1900,
my father sold out his business in Delta County and
moved to West Texas in Fisher County.
raised
some livestock and did a little farming and had a
general merchandise country store and post
office about 20 miles west of Stamford and 20 miles
from Robie. It was quite an isolated country,
territory in those days. Then in 1905, The family
moved to Clarendon, Texas when I was about 10 years
old. And I went through grade high school in
Clarendon, Texas, and then went from there to
Texas A&M. How did you make the move first to the
vicinity of Stanford? I beg your pardon? how how
was the move made from east texas to stamford it was
made by uh it was made by a train with a chartered car
to carry livestock and household goods and so on
and then by wagon to be placed west of stamford over
in fisher county then in the move from
Fisher County to Clarendon was made in with a wagon
and Surrey and then also a chartered car to carry
household goods and so on. We went through in a
wagon and Surrey covered wagon. Must have been
quite an experience for a ten-year-old boy. Well
yes, however I had another experience Prior to
that, when we were living in Fisher County, and I
was about seven, I guess, years old, along about
1902, I suppose it was, our family, the younger
children in our family and two other families with
children, decided to have a vacation trip up
across the plains, wagon, covered wagon trip. And
we did, and that was quite an experience. And I
remember Lubbock particularly because I never
had seen so many windmills in one place in all my
life as they were here. And I recall watering our
livestock, horses, going with my father to water
those at a stock trough. I believe by the
courthouse, the old courthouse, wherever that
was. It was in Lubbock? Here in Lubbock. We camped
somewhere off outside the city. By today's
standards, one would hardly think of a trek across
the plains by wagon as a vacation. No, I guess not.
But it was lots of fun for we kids. We had no cares at
all. What factors were involved in your decision
to go to Texas A&M as opposed to, say, some other
school? I think one thing was I understood that it
didn't cost as much as some other schools. And also
there was a man named Sawyer
who was, I believe, an 1870-some-odd
graduate or student. at A&M who lived in the
country. And his son, several years older than I,
had gone there also. And another boy named Edwin
Patterson and myself decided we would go down and
become electrical engineers. We'd been fooling
around with radio and the old dot dash sort of stuff
and thought that we'd go down there and become
electrical engineers. He did, but I didn't. I
noted that you were in architecture. Yes. I
switched to architecture after my first year and
found out that there was so much math in the regular
engineering course. What procedures did you go
through to enter Texas A&M? we got a catalog and
found out how many units I believe they called it in
those days of high school work you had to have to
enter and I believe I just barely had enough
because we we only had 11 grades in high school at
that time and
I recall going to the superintendent of our high
school and asking him to
support me in my efforts to go there, and he did.
Yeah, I think he wrote a letter or something like
that. Our high school wasn't the best in the world,
I guess, but maybe we learned some things that they
don't learn now. I believe there was a period, and
it probably was during the time that you entered
A&M, that there were schools that were so-called
affiliated with A&M, and if you completed one of
those, then you could be accepted without an
entrance exam. Well, I did not take an entrance
exam, but I don't know whether we were affiliated
or not. But anyway, the letter that he wrote, I got
entrance there. There weren't so many students
trying to go there then. What were your first
reactions to Texas A&M and to what there was of the
community of College Station when you arrived?
I hardly know. Of course, I was lonesome. I was
barely 17 years old. And
there was a little hazing going on even before
registration.
like
pushing a cart with the trunks for the old boys up
from the station. And I was a little bit disturbed,
I think, long about that time. So there were some
upperclassmen who arrived, I presume, on the same
train with you? On the same train with
myself. Were there any people there to meet the
train when it arrived? I don't believe so. Perhaps
they might have been, but I just don't recall that.
But a boy named Horace Sawyer was a freshman coming
in, and I believe he's one of your distinguished
men of the school now, and a boy named E.B.
Patterson, who is now dead, the three of us. And
then there were several older students, former
students, old students, arrived on the same
train, and we got a little hazing on the train
itself, I believe. We had to do a little singing for
them, such as that, but that was all right. Okay.
Then did you arrive, say, one day and register the
next? I don't recall, just... I
presume fairly quickly after you arrived there
you were assigned to or selected a military unit.
Did you have any choice in which unit you entered? I
don't believe I had a choice. Actually, I had no
reason to prefer one over another, and I was
assigned to Company K.
Company K was housed in Milner Hall, which was one
of the real new halls at that time. So then if you
were in the new hall as a fish, then you didn't have
to go through the procedure of carrying water and
wood and so forth for the upperclassmen that some
of the boys who lived in the older dorms did. No, I
didn't.
We didn't have that problem in Milner Hall. I lived
in the basement. for the first few months until
they put all the attendants down. So many of them
went home. Then I got to move up to another floor.
But I did live in Foster Hall where we had wood
stoves
and wooden water problems later on. at that time
why it was just a matter of pitching our bucket out
the window hollering at a fish and pitching the
bucket out and having him bring the water up and
wood what year was that that you lived in foster uh
let's see it was the my fourth year that had been uh i
went there in 12 i guess that was in 1516, year 1516.
Okay. Well then, did you live in any dorms other
than Milner and Foster then? In Leggett. In my last
year there, I lived in Leggett Hall. And that was
another one of the fairly new... Another one of the
fairly new schools. I believe Mitchell at that
time was the newest, newest hall. I believe you
said your first year you were in K Company. Were you
all, did you... serving in different companies
other than K? Well I was in K for the first
two years I believe. Then I was assigned to Company
E but I still lived in Milner the third year. Fourth
year I was a
half junior, half senior, so I wasn't assigned to
any particular unit, as I recall. And the fifth
year, I was
Edson of one of the battalions. I believe,
according to the yearbook, it was the 1st
Battalion, the 2nd Regiment. I believe so. Okay.
Would you describe a typical day during the time
that you were there? Well, of course,
Reveille and the dressing and trying to make
Reveille formation on time to march down to the
hall and tying the necktie on the run and that sort
of thing. I presume wrapping your leggings No, at
that time, we didn't have the... You didn't have
the wrap leggings. We didn't have the wrap
leggings. We had the old gray uniform. In fact, all
the time I was there, that was our uniform. And...
That's right. Of course, making Reveille... then
marching to our meals and then going to classes. If
it was muddy, how the old sticky soil would boil up
on your heels and your shoes and so on. Yeah, there
were no sidewalks. No sidewalks. We had gravel,
supposedly gravel sidewalks, but, you know, in
wet weather like we have down there, why? Any
boardwalks? No, we didn't have any boardwalks
that I recall. Seen a few pictures that had some
that I think primarily they were around the
professor's homes, though. Perhaps, perhaps so.
What did you do for entertainment and recreation?
Well, there really wasn't any. Of course, we
played baseball in season, and we played a little
football in season. I mean, I was not large enough
to play football, and I couldn't hit well enough to
play varsity baseball, but I could play company
football and baseball and basketball. although
we knew very little about basketball then. It was
on outside courts, dirt, cinder. Where were those
courts, do you remember? No, they were scattered
around over two or three places because two
companies would go together to form a team, like I
and K companies. We had our baseball team. Would
this be in all sports then? In all the sports, you
had two companies go together to form a team. Yes,
at that time, yes. And there really, there wasn't
any particular entertainment. We'd try to get to
go to Bryan on occasion if we could get a permit to do
that. We had to get a permit in the first year or two
that I was there, as I recall. It could be denied or
it could be approved by the commandant or the
assistant commandant. And it had to be exactly
correctly done or it would be disapproved. And
then there were other limitations on going to
Brown Financial. I guess that affects all
students. It doesn't seem to affect too many of
them today. Well, perhaps not now. Some of them
only have two cars now on the local campus here.
You said, I believe earlier, that you lived in two
of the newer dormitories and one of the older ones.
What was life like in those dormitories? Was it
pretty hectic or was it pretty well controlled? It
was pretty well controlled. Of course it was
during study hours in particular, but there were
lots of, except during study hours, there were
lots of bull sessions that students would gang up
in one room swap stores and tell lies that about
what all they had done I suppose but
during during after called quarters everything
was in everyone was in the military department at
that time after called quarters and until
tattoo which I believe came at I don't recall 10 15
perhaps why things were pretty quiet. Did you have
a student patrolling the hallways? Students
walking post in the hallways yes and I have had to
walk some posts in there in fact I don't suppose you
have ever seen old Pfeiffer Hall. The only
pictures of it. It was, I recall, a walking post
there because the floor, every step you took by the
floor creaked. So then you had to walk post in a
dormitory in which you did not live. Oh yes, yes. If
you were assigned a post, just like you would be in
the service during Did you ever have to walk post in
your own dormitory? I don't recall that I ever did.
In fact, I believe only the first year that I had to
walk post. I don't recall having to walk post other
than the first year. Was it always just the
freshmen who walked the post? You know, I don't
recall. Or did they discontinue the practice
after that? Well, no, they didn't discontinue the
practice, I don't believe, while I was there. They
did discontinue the practice of requiring a
written permit to visit Brown because that only
lasted about a year after I got there, I believe, or
so. Did the students, in addition to the bull
sessions, did they play games in the dorms, rooms,
like dominoes or cards or anything of that nature?
I don't remember that they did. I don't believe so.
I believe at one point there were rules that
forbade the cards on campus. I think so. I think so.
Also cigarettes. How about cigars and chewing
tobacco? Cigars, I believe, were not
allowed. Chewing tobacco was not ruled out
because I recall I did a little cartooning while I
was there. for the battalion, and I made a strip
like mutton, Jeff,
and I believe one of them asked the other for a
cigarette, and he didn't have any cigarettes, but
he had some Star Navy, and it was cheaper anyway.
And that was a popular brand at the time? Star Navy
tobacco, oh yes, it was very popular. But
actually, there was some cigarette smoking going
on, although not too many boys. Was that a serious
punishable offense if you were caught? Yes, it
was, but I don't recall what the amount of
punishment was. As a matter of fact, you got, I
believe they call it rams. You got rammed for lots
of things. I spent some time on the campus working
around on the grounds, working off demerits. So
you would work off your demerits that way rather
than marching in the bullring or something? I
never did have to march. I don't, I believe that
came along after. I see. But I did do some work for
the grounds. What was the food like? food was good,
but wholesome.
Not always very tasty, but it
was something that I suppose they still gripe
about. We griped about it, but it was all right. Did
it get pretty monotonous at times? Yes, it did. And
of course, we had all kinds of names for various
things, which I wouldn't do to write up. But at
Speza Hall, we had Mexican waiters at that time,
didn't have any student waiters.
And the freshmen had to sit in the middle of the
table, his long table, usually with a senior at
each end and...
Juniors and sophomores... Juniors and
sophomores according to rank on down towards the
middle and the freshmen of course in the middle. I
have eaten some When I was a freshman, I have eaten
some parts of my meal under the table for violating
some... The upperclassmen would put you under the
table. Yes, yes. I guess all of us about that time
did. Did the upperclassmen have various devious
means of obtaining your dessert or your kush at
that point? Oh, yes. Yeah, they'd talk about
how... They'd give it some description that you
just that would tend to turn your stomach, and you
didn't want any kush.
I've had that done, too. However, I developed
pretty good resistance to that, because I liked
kush.
Did the upperclassmen have any privileges that
were not accorded to the freshmen? Oh, yes, but I
don't recall what they were. Yes, sure, the
upperclassmen had lots of privileges that the
freshmen didn't have. I presume that ability of
doing a little hazing was one. Oh, yes, yes.
However, hazing was never a real problem because I
noticed that the
upperclassmen didn't haze freshmen whom they
didn't like personally. And of course, the
freshmen, we,
at least I did, and I guess some of the others did, we
used to tease the upperclassmen or kid them about
how weak they were when they hit us with a broom or a
belt. We'd ask them if that was as hard as they could
hit, and of course, That brought it on a little more
severely. But hazing was not a problem. I imagine
it would be a problem only for those who sort of took
offense to it. Yes, and not too many of them did that
because, as I said, the upperclassmen
didn't haze students that they didn't like. Was it
primarily confined to an individual company? I
mean, the upperclassmen in Company K, Hayes only,
the freshmen in K? That's right. They didn't cross
company lines? No, I don't recall any crossing of
lines, company lines. In fact, I presume that
as upperclassmen, we wouldn't have liked it for
somebody in another dormitory or another company
to invade our company. That was sacred ground
wasn't it? Yes it was.
Did the cadet officers enjoy any particular
privileges over above the other cadets?
Yes. I don't recall just what all privileges we
had. We could visit during study hours
when we were seniors. We didn't have to go to chapel
if we didn't want to. And we could want unless we
were company officers. And some of those could
wander down to the mess hall without marching with
the company. This would be the regimental staff.
Well, the regimental staff and of course, the
At
meal time, certain meal time, the seniors did not
have to march to the mess hall. They could walk
down. If someone was there to take the company
down, say. So primarily if, what, you'd have one of
the sergeants? Perhaps march the company down.
Maybe one officer or the first sergeant, and the
rest of them could do as they wanted. How often was
chapel? You said they could escape chapel
occasionally. The seniors could escape chapel
any time, as I recall.
The rest of the students were marched to chapel,
and of course, some of them escaped by dodging
around back in Foster Hall or Ross Hall or some of
those. And dropping out of formation and scooting
around the corner. Oh, yes, drop out of formation.
Was this only on Sunday that you had chapel, or was
it more frequently? No, it's Sundays.
Did you have any? It was required that we go to
chapel. but it was required that you go, but
apparently they didn't check roll. No, no, nobody
would tell them. Did you have any favorite
instructors while you were there? Yes, yes, I did.
I had a number of favorites. Tell us about them.
Well, D.B. Cofer was one whom I became acquainted
with first.
I recall the first time our class was in his
classroom, on the board we saw the most perfect
script that you can imagine.